The script RATh2o2.m contains the in vitro computational model of endogenous H2O2 metabolism in rat hepatocytes (rat hepatocytes
existing in an in vitro preparation). It is identical to the script RATh2o2_dma3.m, minus everything having to do with
arsenic. 

To run this script, all files in this repository must be in the same directory (folder). The script will load the .mat file
yinitialcondition.mat, which contains the variable yinit. yinit dictates the initial concentrations of all chemical species
in both hepatocytes and medium, and the initial number of cells (element 65, set here to 20,000). 

RATh2o2.m assumes that there are 20,000 rat hepatocytes for every 100 microliters of medium, and that the medium formula is
Dulbecco's Modified Eagle Medium (DMEM). If you wish to model a different in vitro setup, then the constants cellnum and/or 
vmed in RATh2o2.m ,and possibly element 65 of yinit, must be changed. Regarding the initial concentrations of cystine and cysteine 
in medium (elements 10 and 11 of yinit, respectively), they are set to values intended to describe the composition of DMEM. 
Only the total cysteine/cystine content is specified on its list of ingredients, which I deduced was equivalent to 260.5 micromolar
cystine equivalents (0.5 [cysteine]+[cystine]). I had to estimate how this is divvied up between cysteine and cystine. I assumed that 
the redox balance bewteen the two forms is such that cysteine is present in medium at its normal concentration in rat blood plasma, about
20 micromolar. If you wish to use RATh2o2.m to simulate a different kind of medium, it is very important that you look at its list of 
ingredients and alter elements 10 and 11 of yinit so that 0.5 [cysteine]+[cystine] equals the total listed cystine content.

The concentrations of biochemical species in rat hepatocytes stored in yinit reflect the normal (in vivo) values reported in the
physiology literature. The model is constructed to yield a steady-state solution consistent with these values. HOWEVER: solutions
will only approach this steady state if equation 11 of RATh2o2.m is commented out (effectively holding medium cysteine constant). 
If this is done, the file SteadyState.txt, generated by RATh2o2.m, will print out the steady-state concentrations and also, the steady
state reaction and transport velocities. If equation 11 is not commented out, solutions will not approach a steady state. Instead,
GSH in hepatocytes will decline with time, H2O2 in hepatocytes will rise, cysteine/cystine in medium will decline, and GSH in medium 
will rise. This is because cellular medium lacks the enzymes necessary to break down exported GSH and regenerate its component
amino acids, one of which is cysteine. Given how large the volume of medium is compared to the total volume of the 20,000 
hepatocytes, this effect takes a while to become significant.

To simulate the effects of a total halt in GSH synthesis, set ``V" in VGCLholorat.m to zero. This is necessary to simulate Fig. 6 in the
paper. It is also interesting to *not* do this, and not comment out equation 11 of RATh2o2.m. This will illustrate how hepatocytes 
sitting in cellular medium eventually experience some oxidative stress, simply due to the declining medium cysteine concentration.
This indicates that, to avoid this experimental artifact, the volume of medium should be as large as possible, for a given number
of hepatocytes. To use an analogy, if I am fishing in an aquarium, I will quickly deplete the number of fish; if I am fishing in a lake,
this effect is trivial.

Finally: there is a typo in the text of section 3.3. Where it reads ``N(24)=20,000" it should instead read ``N(0)=20,000." Here, N is the
number of living hepatocytes and the argument is time in hours.
 

